README.md, before:

# blog

> generated by [nix][nix]

### build

add your posts as [markdown][gfm] files in `posts/` then:

> output `html` in `/build`

```bash
ruby nix.rb --build
```

## publish

Just push to your repository. 

The custom action will get triggered & publish via [Github Pages][gh-pages].  

Assuming your Github username is: `foo` and the repository name is `bar`,  
you'd visit: [https://foo.github.io/bar](https://foo.github.io/bar)

## usage 

It's like [Jekyll][jekyll]. You write [Github-flavored Markdown][gfm].

> inc. syntax highlighting for 150 languages via [`pygments`][pygments]

- Add posts in `posts/`
- Add pages in `pages/`

... each Post *must* have a:

- `# <post-title>` on the 1st line
- `empty line` on the 2nd
- `<date>` on the 3rd, ie. `2024-10-18`

... for example:

```markdown
# Lorem Ipsum


2024-12-20

> A sentence should contain no unnecessary words, a paragraph no unnecessary 
> sentences, for the same reason that a drawing should have no unnecessary lines 
> and a machine no unnecessary parts. This requires not that the writer make all 
> his sentences short, or that he avoid all detail and treat his subjects only 
> in outline, but that every word tell

The Elements of Style by William Strunk Jr (1918) ...
```

additionally:

- images go in `public/`.
- css are in `public/style.css`
- configuration is in `_config.rb`


## serve locally

```bash
ruby --serve 8081
```

[nix]: https://github/com/nicholaswmin/nix
[club]: https://1kb.club/
[ruby]: https://ruby-doc.org/3.3.4/
[jekyll]: https://jekyllrb.com/
[gh-pages]: https://pages.github.com/
[gfm]: https://github.github.com/gfm/
[pygments]: https://pygments.org/
[file-rb]: https://github.com/nicholaswmin/nix/blob/main/nix.rb

Commit message:

build: attempt to fix assets

README.md, after:

# blog

> generated by [nix][nix]

### build

add your posts as [markdown][gfm] files in `posts/` then:

> output `html` in `/build`

```bash
ruby nix.rb --build
```

## publish

Just push to your repository. 

The custom action will get triggered & publish via [Github Pages][gh-pages].  

Assuming your Github username is: `foo` and the repository name is `bar`,  
you'd visit: [https://foo.github.io/bar](https://foo.github.io/bar)

## usage 

It's like [Jekyll][jekyll]. You write [Github-flavored Markdown][gfm].

> inc. syntax highlighting for 150 languages via [`pygments`][pygments]

- Add posts in `posts/`
- Add pages in `pages/`

... each Post *must* have a:

- `# <post-title>` on the 1st line
- `empty line` on the 2nd
- `<date>` on the 3rd, ie. `2024-10-18`

... for example:

```markdown
# Lorem Ipsum


2024-12-20

> A sentence should contain no unnecessary words, a paragraph no unnecessary 
> sentences, for the same reason that a drawing should have no unnecessary lines 
> and a machine no unnecessary parts. This requires not that the writer make all 
> his sentences short, or that he avoid all detail and treat his subjects only 
> in outline, but that every word tell

The Elements of Style by William Strunk Jr (1918) ...
```

additionally:

- images go in `public/`, 
- css are in `public/style.css`
- configuration is in `_config.rb`

> **note:** assets are copied to the root, 
> not within a `public` folder.
> 
> good: `<img src="/felix.svg"></img>`
> bad : `<img src="/public/felix.svg"></img>`

## serve locally

```bash
ruby --serve 8081
```

[nix]: https://github/com/nicholaswmin/nix
[club]: https://1kb.club/
[ruby]: https://ruby-doc.org/3.3.4/
[jekyll]: https://jekyllrb.com/
[gh-pages]: https://pages.github.com/
[gfm]: https://github.github.com/gfm/
[pygments]: https://pygments.org/
[file-rb]: https://github.com/nicholaswmin/nix/blob/main/nix.rb
